from NBC News this is today with Matt
Lauer and Savannah Guthrie live from
Studio 1a in Rockefeller Plaza
catastrophic one of the most powerful
storms ever recorded with wind gusts up
to 230 miles per hour slams directly
into the Philippines overnight we're
there live and have more on that big
announcement later on but first this
storm is amazing that's the top story
today a massive typhoon that's hammering
the Philippines and wreaking havoc there
right now I tiens Angus Walker is in
Manila Angus good morning what can you
tell us good morning Matt well the
experts the warning that this was going
to be the Storm of the Century a
category five super typhoon with wind
speeds of up to 200 miles an hour this
morning the people of the Philippines
are counting the cost when typhoon
Haiyan made landfall at record speeds it
shows no mercy growing apart houses
whipping up giant waves and forcing
almost a million people to flee their
homes power and communications in large
part of the country were down as the
super storm lashed the central island
and tourist area some 12 million people
were at risk but early evacuation have
kept the death toll low so far for dead
have been reported but the numbers may
rise Haiyan is the 24th storm to hit the
Philippines this year and this is shrine
storm season the whole province is still
recovering from a massive earthquake
last month and our residents are fearing
for their lives a second time the
strength of this typhoon is its massive
and luckily so far we don't have too
many reports of flash floods we'll have
to see what the extent of the damages
the school is so fast moving that
experts say it may actually prevent
catastrophic flooding normally the cause
of most death
from typhoons in the Philippine a ray of
hope perhaps in the country it will have
to pick up the pieces yet again the
storm has now been downgraded as it
heads for up here in Manila and then off
towards China and Vietnam back you don't
that's Angus Walker in Manila from ITN
for us this morning Angus thank you very
much bringing out for some perspective
here it's supposed to be one of the
strongest storms ever recorded that's
right stronger than hurricane andrew
stronger than even a Camille that was
one of the strongest ever and this
system right now is 230 miles 233 miles
south southeast of Manila it's got even
though it's not a super typhoon now
technically 165 mile per hour winds it's
moving very fast it's moving west to 25
miles per hour this storms about 300
miles wide roughly the distance between
Boston and Philadelphia it made landfall
as one of the most powerful typhoons
give you a sense of this hurricane sandy
had winds of 80 miles per hour at
landfall it's also on par with hurricane
mitch and in this same area was hit last
month by an earthquake that killed over
222 miles per hour now to give you a
perspective of 195 mile-per-hour winds I
was in Hurricane Wilma in 2005 with a
hundred and eighty five mile per hour
winds and that's what happened so
imagine an entire area an entire country
being buffeted by these it is really
rough and now this weekend it makes its
way out into the Pacific and heads on
toward a point Vietnam remember they'll
probably be more damage we continue to
follow it throughout the morning I'll
thank you